pydecay
=======

In particle physics, most every experimental analysis involves Monte Carlo (MC) simulation of some process and the extraction from actual experimental data of events related to that process. To ease these tasks for BaBar? data preservation and future experiments, the following have been designed: a language (“GraphPhys?”) for specifying decay processes, common to both simulation and data analysis, allowing arbitrary parameters on particles, decays, and entire processes; an automated visualization tool to show graphically what decays have been speciﬁed; and a searchable database storage mechanism for the decay speciﬁcations produced.  (Unlike HepML, a proposed XML standard for HEP metadata, the speciﬁcation language is designed not for data interchange between computer systems, but rather for direct manipulation by human beings as well as computers; this language can be used for internal conﬁguration even if HepML is used for inter-generator metadata interchange.) The components are interoperable: the information parsed from ﬁles in the speciﬁcation language can easily be rendered as an image by the visualization package, and conversion between the GraphPhys? and database repesentations was implemented. An existing barebones MC simulator was modiﬁed to use ﬁles in this language as conﬁguration ﬁles as a proof of concept. Applications include improving the efficiency and ease of current analysis within BaBar?, providing a framework for future ILC/SuperB analyses, and outreach efforts to provide students with access to BaBar? data and analysis tools to allow them to get a hands-on feel for scientiﬁc analysis.  